---
layout: post
title: Things you should know about Nanotechnology
author:
categories:
  - Technology
image: uploads/hexagon-structure-2g-1633278-640x360_525x276.jpg
featured: false
keywords: Nanotechnology polymers applications nanoparticles synthesis research
---
<!-- JSON-LD markup generated by Google Structured Data Markup Helper. -->
<script type="application/ld+json">
[ {
  "@context" : "http://schema.org",
  "@type" : "Article",
  "datePublished" : "2020-05-21",
  "image" : "https://bugzbit.com/uploads/hexagon-structure-2g-1633278-640x360_525x276.jpg",
  "articleSection" : "Why nanotechnology is important?",
  "articleBody" : "It is said that nanotechnology will bring in the next industrial revolution. Be it advanced health care, automobile, security, food, clean energy etc., the implicating of nanotechnology is limitless. Countries that will lead nanotechnology may be able to get many advantages over others. VantaBlack is one such example. Developed by Surrey Nanosystems, VantaBlack can absorb 99.965% of visible light making it one of the darkest substances known to mankind. The applications of VantaBlack are many like improving the sensitivity of telescope or camera equipment, thermal camouflage, for heat absorption in solar technology, etc. Nanotechnology will introduce the world to the next generation of materials and compounds which can change the way we have looked at technology and its applications"
}, {
  "@context" : "http://schema.org",
  "@type" : "Article",
  "datePublished" : "2020-05-21",
  "image" : "https://bugzbit.com/uploads/hexagon-structure-2g-1633278-640x360_525x276.jpg",
  "articleSection" : "Where nanotechnology is applied?",
  "articleBody" : "As shown earlier, Nanotechnology has a lot of applications. Let us take a look into the details of what real-world applications can nanotechnology used for.</P>\n\n<P><STRONG><EM>Structural Nanomaterials</EM></STRONG></P>\n\n<P>Materials made to enhance the mechanical, and thermal characteristics based on polymers, ceramic, or metallic elements.</P>\n\n<P><STRONG><EM>Smart Nanomaterials</EM></STRONG></P>\n\n<P>These are materials used in the development of electronic, magnetic, and photonic devices which shall provide enhanced parameters like being lightweight, optimum space utility, and cost-efficiency. It will also be corroborated to design elements for sensitive environments susceptible to temperature, pressure, or radiation.</P>\n\n<P><STRONG><EM>Polymer Nanomaterials</EM></STRONG></P>\n\n<P>It will be used in the manufacture of advanced polymers with improved strength, adhesiveness, and a wide range of structural and functional applications</P>\n\n<P><STRONG><EM>Nanostructured coatings, composites, and hybrids</EM></STRONG></P>\n\n<P>They can be dramatically advanced to implement hybrid structures of coating between different components"
}, {
  "@context" : "http://schema.org",
  "@type" : "Article",
  "datePublished" : "2020-05-21",
  "image" : "https://bugzbit.com/uploads/hexagon-structure-2g-1633278-640x360_525x276.jpg",
  "articleSection" : "What are the Key Challenges for Nanotechnology?",
  "articleBody" : "According to <A href=\"https://www.nanowerk.com/nanotechnology/reports/reportpdf/report136.pdf\" target=\"_blank\"><EM>GENESYS white paper</EM></A> , published by the Max Plank Institute for Metal"
} ]
</script>

The desire for technology to be minuscule and convenient is what has defined the last 2 decades of innovation and science. One such area of research which is related to the manipulation of minutest has been Nanotechnology.

> According to the National Nanotechnology Initiative, which has given a generalized description, that mentions Nanotechnology as the manipulation of matter with at least one dimension sized from 1 to 100 nanometers.

Just for comparison, 100,000 nanometers is equivalent to the thickness of a newspaper sheet. The benefits of working with nanotech can be limitless. Nanotech is about building elements at the atomic level. At this scale the characteristics of materials differ from their original macro scale. Let us say, elements at the nanoscale are much stronger, lighter, and functional.

Nanotechnology was first coined by Japanese scientist Norio Taniguchi in the year 1974, who was also accoladed with the lifetime achievement award by the European Society for Precision Engineering and Nanotechnology in Bremen,1999.

> In 1960, engineers Mohamed Atalla and Dawon Kahng at Bell Labs fabricated the first MOSFET (metal-oxide-semiconductor field-effect transistor) with a gate oxide thickness of 100 nm."

## Why nanotechnology is important?

It is said that nanotechnology will bring in the next industrial revolution. Be it advanced health care, automobile, security, food, clean energy etc., the implicating of nanotechnology is limitless. Countries that will lead nanotechnology may be able to get many advantages over others. VantaBlack is one such example. Developed by Surrey Nanosystems, VantaBlack can absorb 99.965% of visible light making it one of the darkest substances known to mankind. The applications of VantaBlack are many like improving the sensitivity of telescope or camera equipment, thermal camouflage, for heat absorption in solar technology, etc. Nanotechnology will introduce the world to the next generation of materials and compounds which can change the way we have looked at technology and its applications

## Where nanotechnology is applied?

As shown earlier, Nanotechnology has a lot of applications. Let us take a look into the details of what real-world applications can nanotechnology used for.

***Structural Nanomaterials***

Materials made to enhance the mechanical, and thermal characteristics based on polymers, ceramic, or metallic elements.

***Smart Nanomaterials***

These are materials used in the development of electronic, magnetic, and photonic devices which shall provide enhanced parameters like being lightweight, optimum space utility, and cost-efficiency. It will also be corroborated to design elements for sensitive environments susceptible to temperature, pressure, or radiation.

***Polymer Nanomaterials***

It will be used in the manufacture of advanced polymers with improved strength, adhesiveness, and a wide range of structural and functional applications

***Nanostructured coatings, composites, and hybrids***

They can be dramatically advanced to implement hybrid structures of coating between different components.

## What are the Key Challenges for Nanotechnology?

According to [*GENESYS white paper*](https://www.nanowerk.com/nanotechnology/reports/reportpdf/report136.pdf){: target="_blank"} , published by the Max Plank Institute for Metal Research, the challenges currently are

***Synthesis of primary Nanoparticles***

There is a fundamental lack of microscopic understanding of the initial nucleation process and the subsequent growth process leading to stable nanoparticles.

***Deposition Technologies*** Synthesis of thin films and multilayers The controlled use of surfactants and the extension of these techniques to organic and biological materials. It is rather unclear, how these strategies can be combined with self-assembly.

***Removal and modification technologies***

Nanostructuring of Surfaces To arrive at a microscopic understanding and control of these techniques, reliable in-situ information on the surface and subsurface structure evolution, strain distribution within a single nanostructure are indispensable.

***Self Assembly***

To access the microscopic information on all levels of the self-assembled structures in a non-destructive way during all steps of the self-assembling process